In Deuteronomy chapter 8 verse 7 it says,
For Jehovah your God is bringing you into a good land.
Today what makes that same land beautiful is not its location, but its people.
This year we saw an Israel a peak of 1500 and two publishers in 25 congregations,
8 Hebrew, 13 Russian, 2 Arabic, 1 English and 1 Hebrew sign language congregation.
In Palestine there are 73 publishers in 2 congregations, Ramallah and Bethlehem.
After two years of major building renovations,
we enjoyed last October sharing in a Bethel dedication program.
It was a real privilege to have the dedication taught delivered by your member of the governing body.
With a political climate in a Middle East saw uncertain, war broke out last July,
with over 4,000 rockets raining down on Israel, and over 40 of them on downtown Tel Aviv near Bethel.
Despite all this, the brothers courageously continued their activity.
Recently started the metropolitan public witnessing program that is giving a fine witness in a center of Tel Aviv.
In a ministry, we still facing opposition from religious elements.
Usually they follow brothers around chanting out the word missionaries.
We have to know that in Israel most people consider this word derogatory,
feeling that we should not preach to Jews as they belong to the chosen nation.
But these does not deter the brothers who continue boldly preaching the kingdom message.
This year we received approval for another special preaching campaign.
We are very grateful considering that around 80% of our ration and Arabic and Hebrew territory is still uncovered.
The field ministry in Israel is generally pleasant and gives good fruit,
as we can see by the following experience.
20-year-old Orel came in contact with the truth while he was doing his military service.
He was serving as a tank gunner and was very nationalistic.
He had a friend by the name of Luba, and she was studying with the witnesses,
so he was determined to save her.
They would often meet at coffee shops and discuss the Bible,
but she knew her Bible much better than he did, which really annoyed him.
A one day he said to her,
if you will have me believe that Paul said that the law is down a way with,
I will reject Paul rather than the law.
Later he was sent to Gaza and said,
that is where everyone wanted to go. That's where the action is.
At that time Orel did not have any problem with what he was doing.
Eventually though, with the many Bible discussions,
he started to feel uncomfortable.
He relates, through my tank telescope,
I saw old men, women, and children.
Looking at them, I could feel nothing but love for them,
they being children of God just as I am.
In one instance in particular, his company was just finishing a 24-hour lookout
when a mass force is open-fired on an Israeli officer.
They took up their battled position.
He relates, I had in our sights, a van packed with seven armed terrorists
with the safeties off and my finger on the trigger.
We were all ready and set to fire.
The tank crew and radio were waiting in complete silence for the go ahead.
But I didn't want to shoot,
even though killing those men would have made me decorated.
I was not sure what God's will was on the matter,
so I decided to pray.
All I could think about was Jesus' word at Matthew 26 verse 39,
not as I will but as you will.
Contrary to all expectations, we never got that go ahead.
That was back in 2011,
and from that time Orel decided to study it with a brother regularly
and at an meetings.
After a while, his conscience troubled him so much that he decided to leave the army
and immediately stopped carrying a weapon.
The process took nine months, but eventually he was discharged.
A month after that, he became an unbaptized publisher.
Some months later, Orel and Luba is from a friend with whom he was discussing the Bible,
not married, they dedicated their lives to Jehovah,
and they were baptized in August 2013.
Israel is no more the promised land,
but the brothers are still enjoying Jehovah's many blessing,
knowing that such blessing does not depend on location,
but is the result of listening to Jehovah's voice and doing what he requires.
We are very happy to bring you the warm love and affection
of the 52 members of the Israel-Gothal family.